It like really hit me like a ton of
bricks of, oh, there's this thing that
I'm called to do for whatever reason
that I cannot explain. But if I don't
honor it, I know that it life is not as
full.
[Music]
Well, I just have to say it's it's an
honor to be with the two of you um as as
older brothers. I'm the younger brother
here. And so, you know, it's hard not to
start by going into where we are in the
world today. There's a lot of
uncertainty. A lot of people are scared.
>> So, maybe starting with you, Joe, you
know, what are you seeing in the leaders
that you're working with? You know, how
are they holding this uncertainty in
this new world that we find ourselves?
>> It seems like there's two ways in which
they're it's being held. First one is
that they're holding it with a lot of
fear.
>> And so typically what that does is that
creates binary thinking. So they good
and bad, black or white, right and wrong
when people are in the fear without
feeling the fear.
>> Mh.
>> And the other thing that's happening is
there's a lot of false end thinking that
goes on. So
if this happens then doom or if this
happens then the company will collapse
etc etc. um and and the propensity to
fall into that fear is based more in
different parts of the market. The other
group of of uh folks that I work with
see this as a massive opportunity
>> at these moments of transition that we
we we are inevitably going to go through
as a society, as as people, as a
business. um that it allows you to
redefine institutions, allows you to
have a lot of growth just the same way a
marriage would or a divorce would.
>> And those folks, they're deeply feeling
into their fear, allowing that to move
through them and then looking for the
opportunity. The way they find the
opportunity isn't 10-year thinking or
fiveyear thinking during which you can
do when there's some idea of stability,
but they're finding the opportunity in a
more like a threemonth out period, a
six-month out period.
>> Mhm. Going back to that black and white
thinking.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, how do you help someone
through that and and be able to process
that fear and uncertainty in their
system?
>> Yeah. So most of what happens is
people's natural response is how do I
get out of the fear and so if you want
to the best way is to get into the fear
and so
>> typically you can feel that fear at any
moment if you allow yourself to and if
you fully uh allow the emotion and the
expression of that fear in your system
>> then you'll get to a feeling of greater
capacity. It's interesting. Our minds
tell us, "Oh, if we allow ourselves to
be sad, we'll be sad forever." But when
we allow ourselves to be sad, we
actually get happier. If we allow
ourselves to move that anger, we
actually get to clarity and
determination. So for me, it's it's not
it's helping them through it. It's
helping them feel it.
>> Jerry,
>> hi.
>> Hey.
So, what are you seeing from from your
vantage point?
>> I have learned that the way for me to
work through whatever suffering I'm
going through is through compassion,
>> to be with.
And so, um,
I was talking to a friend last week
who's sort of in an adjacent space. He's
a he's got a big CEO advisory service
and he said something to me, you have to
acknowledge
that this is a challenging time. And
what I would turn around and offer is
the normalization of grief. Mhm. I mean,
I'm sure you'd agree that that that part
of what makes
um this being human so difficult is the
belief that whatever experience we're
having is not is something we're not
supposed to be having.
>> Yeah.
>> Totally.
>> Right. And that includes grief.
I had a client whose dog passed away.
And the dog predated
not only their children but their
marriage
>> and his wife had grown very very
attached to the dog
>> and he asked me if I would speak to his
wife. And so I got on the phone
>> and through her tears she said, "I feel
like an idiot for grieving."
The story that I weave typically to help
people in grief is
couple my favorite is um every time we
allow our hearts to break it increases
our capacity to love is one of the
stories and another story is that if you
are actually in a transformational
process grief is necessary. There has to
be a time where you grieve the fact that
for x amount of years you've been doing
something in a way that's been causing
you pain and it's hurt. And without that
moment of grief, the transition is
really hard. The transformation is
really difficult. And what I notice is
that typically all that's required is
just staying there with them in it. And
if they go to the left or to the right,
stay there in the grief in yourself. and
and they'll usually look forward to
joining you eventually once they
realize, "Oh, it's safe because you're
there with me or you're just there so I
can be there." On a nervous system
level, however, that was a real trick
for me to learn. I, you know, I was made
fun of when I cried as a kid. So,
>> same here.
>> Yeah. They would like my my parents
would take pictures of me
>> and then then when I was like 24 years
old, I was going through the photo album
and there was a picture of me crying
that where they had made fun of me. They
called it a pity party or whatever it
was.
So I took that
picture and I put it on my desk and say
that's why I haven't cried in 14 years.
Like I like obviously so I'm going to
learn how to cry. But my nervous system
was so scared of the attack
>> that I just literally would not do it.
So I lived in LA at the time. So I would
drive to the middle of the wilderness
and I'd hike a couple miles down this
trail that nobody went on. And then I'd
hike off trail and I would sit in this
like this little place and I'd pretend
to cry because I was so embarrassed and
so shamefilled of crying.
>> Mhm.
>> And I did that for months before
actually real tears showed up and then
and then when it came I literally cried
for like four or five days straight.
>> The well
>> the well had opened up.
>> Yeah.
>> What I do notice is grieving in groups
is [__] a [__] ton better than
grieving solo.
It just opens up a door that often times
you can't walk through if you're or it
takes a long time to walk through if
you're doing it on your own. And the
coolest story I have on business around
that is that um a person I was working
with in one of the alphabet companies
they had a day of the dead celebration
and this was a place where they were
innovating. So there's lots of great
ideas and products that had died like
your friend
>> and they would have this day of mourning
and they'd put an altar with all their
things and they would all come in and
and grieve as a as a community.
>> Um that's beautiful.
>> It was it was awesome. I I was what the
heck when I found out that this woman
was doing I'm like okay I'll work with
you. Whatever you like I want to learn
what you're doing. So So yeah. So I
think the nervous system part can be
really tricky sometimes for folks.
>> Yeah. I noticed for me it took me
I mean many years to be able to actually
touch into it.
>> Yeah.
>> And feel it and express it. There are
those those protective tendencies that
we develop over a long period of time
where it doesn't feel safe.
>> Yeah. And that happens with all the
emotions whether it's fear, joy,
elation,
sadness, anger. Anger I think is the one
that hits so many people not feeling
their anger. That's like a huge thing.
And what I've noticed is that on the
other side of anger is what?
>> Clarity, determination,
>> and also for me sadness and grief
>> often. Yeah.
>> And then on the other side of that, it's
like, oh, that feels so good.
>> Jerry,
>> Steve,
>> how do we learn to trust again? a story
I often share. Um, a woman who's lost
her baby
and she comes to the Buddha for relief
and the Buddha gives her an assignment
to go to every house in the village and
to take from that house a mustard seed.
>> Mhm.
>> From any house that has not experienced
grief or loss. And of course, she comes
back empty-handed.
And
what I find so powerful about that story
is not the minimization of grief that
one could read into that but in fact the
universality of the experience.
The fact that not a single household
could produce the mustard seed.
And the reason that I think that that is
an important response to the question
about trust is that
to understand
that all that we have been sharing
happens to all people all the time.
>> Mhm. Every day.
>> Every day.
>> Every minute.
>> In fact, you could make the argument
that it is an essential part of what
defines us as human beings. Mhm.
And so we can use this process of having
our hearts broken to actually understand
that we are human.
And from that place to imagine trust
being built not from a brittle place of
can I trust you or you being
trustworthy, but can I trust this thing
called being human? Mhm.
>> Because
you might do something that hurts me
>> inevitably.
>> Inevitably.
>> Mhm. Cuz that's the other side of love,
right?
>> Yeah. It's finding
soloulless or comfort in the shared
experience of humanity.
>> That's right. That's right. Yeah. The
thing that struck me in the question was
that if somebody's grieving grieved and
said, "I now I'm had to find trust." I'd
be like, "You need to grieve some more."
>> Yeah.
>> Because there's
because what I notice is that when the
grief moves all the way through, there's
nothing to be scared of. So when I see
people having a hard time trusting after
a breakup or a marriage or a bad
business partnership or something like
that, it's typically means that they
haven't creeped the whole thing.
>> Mhm.
So how do you think about it when we
have these like these patterns?
>> Yeah.
>> Like how do we begin to welcome what's
unfolding within us?
>> Yeah. I I do think it's an order of
operations thing.
>> Yeah. I think it is recognition of the
pattern, feeling the emotional component
that's hooking that pattern in place and
repeating it.
>> I deeply welcome those emotional
experiences and I get back to
uh a state of balance then the call is
becomes very very obvious. But I
remember the first time it happened to
me like where it was just so clear. Um,
I was running one of my first long-term
workshops and I interviewed everybody
who came in and there was a CEO and came
up to the office and we were talking and
my kids were in the yard and he left and
the kids were like, "Do not hire that
guy." I was like, "It's not for hiring,
it's for letting him in. Don't let him
into the thing." Both my kids and they
were young and my wife had met him and
was like, "Don't let him in." And I got
phone calls from other folks, don't let
him in. And I sure as hell did not want
to let him in. Like, but whoa, it was
just so clear that this is what I needed
to do. Like, it was just so clear in my
system. It was going to be
uncomfortable.
So, I did. And it was an 18-month
course. And
I'm so grateful he was in that course.
>> He was such a a lightning rod that that
allowed everybody to see themselves so
clearly.
>> Mhm. and my my learnings through it were
amazing.
And so that was the first time that it
would like really hit me like a ton of
bricks of, oh, there's this thing that
I'm called to do for whatever reason
that I cannot explain, but if I don't
honor it, I know that it life is not as
full. M
>> but underneath that like all almost all
of us just an absolute sweetheart of a
human being
>> who really wanted freedom from his own
personality that he had constructed.
>> Mhm. Yeah. I love the distinction
between welcoming and acceptance.
>> Yeah.
>> Because acceptance for me was so hard to
get. You know, I would sit there with
some of my teachers and they like, "Can
you accept yourself for being scared?"
And I'm like, "I don't."
this idea of welcoming. Can you just w
It's just a very different energy.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if you remember
this passage in in my book Reboot where
I talk about uh life on the roller
coaster and I'm describing in the
passage I'm talking about, you know,
clients who come and they're they're
they're in that seat of, you know, all
of a sudden they get bad news from their
co-founder has a cancer or the client is
rejecting the business or their funding
has dried up or whatever and they're up
and they're down, they're up and
And I think the thing
the thing that I wrote that I think
means the most to me about this duality
of freedom and and acceptance
was where I said, you know, the point of
riding the roller coaster is not to get
better at riding roller coasters.
>> Mhm.
>> It's to learn to not board the roller
coaster in the first place.
>> And so if I were to say, what does
freedom and acceptance mean to me?
>> Mhm. It means being able to enjoy the
roller coaster from the ground.
To not attach my sense of selfworth or
my sense of
safety,
my own essence
>> to some sort of outcome. And
that feels like freedom. Mhm.
>> Where I want to go is for those
listening that are currently on the
roller coaster.
>> Yeah.
>> What's that shift to go from on it to on
the ground?
>> When I think about the roller coaster
ride and and it's like success and
failure and you know things coming true
that you want and the attachment that we
feel to things.
When I think about that as it relates to
my own being, it feels really good to be
able to sort of look at that and go, I
don't really care.
I really don't care. Now, that said, I
am not free of that Velcro.
>> It still gets stuck
>> and it gets stuck for me like, you know,
I'm the old fart in the room, right? My
kids are 34, 32, and 28. Mhm.
>> And so where I go is will they have the
life that I want them to have
>> and will their children
>> Mhm.
>> have the life when I see
people that I love
struggling.
You know, you have a kid who goes to
college and they're having a rough
experience. Oh my god, my heart breaks.
Mhm.
>> That's that's where that's where I'm
still riding the roller coaster.
>> Mhm.
>> And I don't know that I'll ever be free
of that one.
And I don't know that I want to be free
>> Mhm.
>> You know, like my daughter got married
in September.
And I said at the wedding, like this
father of the bride thing, it's [__]
real.
>> It's like a real feeling, right? that.
But when she came up to me
and she said, "Daddy,"
and I always say, she melts my heart
when she calls me, "Daddy, daddy, thank
you for giving me the most beautiful day
of my life."
>> That's it. I'm done. I'm just stick a
fork in me. Like, I'm just done.
Because
in my mind, how she's still the same age
as your daughter?
>> Mhm.
>> You know, right? I mean,
and I will I I relish having my heart
broken for those reasons.
>> What I'm hearing is as you move into
this new season of life as as an elder,
as a parent, hopefully one day a
grandparent, from your lips to God's
ears.
>> There there's something really beautiful
in that where there's this recognition
of that's what matters.
>> It's like what a gift impermanence is.
>> Yeah.
>> Because it breaks your heart.
>> You know, one minute one minute you're
shopping for sneakers for a six-year-old
and the next minute you're walking them
down the aisle.
I mean,
holy crap.
>> Isn't life beautiful
>> and heartbreaking?
>> All I want to do now is tell stories
about my daughters.
>> Uh, this is the Father's Day. This is
the Father's Day.
>> We We have a little bit of spaciousness.
So let's say over the last 5 to 10 years
it seems like there's been a huge
interest in whether you want to call it
coaching healing spaceolding
>> from where I sit in Silicon Valley
founders executives you know some might
have been burnt out others in transition
or some you really hearing a deeper call
to to to service to supporting other
humans and like overall I think It's a
really beautiful trend and you know it's
this shift from a from a a very you know
in in many ways transactional sort of
existence to one that's more relational
more more serviceoriented and what do
you hope those that are starting to hear
the call that they understand and embody
before answering it
>> what I notice is that there's a lot of
things in that call
>> often one of them is a a bit of a
narcissism.
My daughter has a a phrase she calls
people gentle narcissists.
>> Mhm.
>> And so there's like a gentle narcissism
in that call typically. And sometimes
it's an important part of the call
because it's you're doing it to have
that part of you eroded away. But it's I
find a lot of people want to do it
because it allows them to stay in this
idea of the person who knows instead of
the person who's ignorant, the person
who's looked at for an answer, the
person who's needed, the person who's
still valid or validated or some version
of that. And um and and and then the
other one is the person who helps. I
don't think you go through being a coach
without
having some of that.
>> And the more you can see that clearly
and deal with the issues underneath that
stuff, I think the better you are for
yourself and for everybody that you're
serving. You know, it was 25 years of
deep internal practice that I went
through before I even began to think
that I
was
equipped
I don't think it has to be that long and
and I have my own issues with it and
didn't want to be an authority figure
and a whole bunch of other things, but
but
what I would hope is that somebody would
actually do quite a bit of their own
work and that they're actually looking
around and they're like, "Oh, my life is
actually, you know, actually if I have
an organization, it's healthy and
functional. If I have a marriage, it's
healthy and functional. If I have kids,
it's healthy and functional. Now I'm
ready to go and coach rather than,
you know, I can't hold a relationship.
My kids hate me and my business is super
dysfunctional, but I'm going to go coach
cuz I had an Iawaska experience. I say
that all and it and it feels like it
could come with some judgment.
And it it doesn't it's
it comes more with grief because I've
just seen the damage that can be done if
if you aren't perpetually
looking at yourself and using this path
as a reflection. Mhm.
>> And in our organization, if you We've
had people who've been working with us,
working before they got to us, working
with us for 7 years before we would let
them facilitate a week-long
program,
like to to see that their level of
clarity to us is like an incredibly
important part of it. And I realize that
that's not going to be the case.
>> Surely isn't the case with therapy or a
whole bunch of things, but
as at the very least, it just to
continually
Look at yourself continually. Look at
the parts of yourself you don't want to
see. That would be my hope.
>> And Jerry,
>> yeah, I I' I'd agree with virtually
everything Joe has said. I would say
that I think it's okay if you've done
the work if you've had those struggles
in your life.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> I don't think you have to be perfect.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um and I don't think you you you meant
it that way. The only thing I would
build upon I see this both as an
opportunity and a little bit of a fear
that I have
and that is um there is a belief and I
think this builds upon what you're
saying there is a belief that I've gone
through coach training or I have gone
through my experience and I'm done as we
all have experienced
>> being in conversation being in
partnership with a client
>> uh will trigger Mhm.
>> And that's a good thing
>> if you know what you're doing, if you
know how to respond to it. There's a
reason why therapists by law much must
have a supervisor.
>> And I would argue that coaches should
have that as well.
>> Absolutely.
>> And even as at 61,
I'm still growing up, man. I am still a
wreck. Um, and that's a good thing. Mhm.
>> So that's the that's what I would add to
it.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I want to even put a bigger point
on that. If you think that you have had
an awakening experience, if you think
that you're fully enlightened, you are
not [__] done.
>> How does someone step into service, you
know, in this context from a place of
integrity?
>> If you want to be of service, you can do
that in every single aspect of your
life.
>> So you don't need to coach to be of
service. If you want the moniker
over the being of service, I would say
that that's a pretty good sign that
something's
wobbly. If you're doing this to make
money, I would also say there's
>> something that's wobbly. And what I
notice in most of the people who are
training with us over a long period of
time for coaching, what happens is
>> there's a lot of coaching that happens
just naturally in their life. people
just start lining up and then once
there's enough people happen they're
never going through this process of can
I find somebody to coach can I fill my
roster that just happens very naturally
and then then all of a sudden their
roster is filled
>> for me there was a moment of clarity
after I had been a VC I don't know 15
years or so um I was serving on too many
boards because I was addicted to that
and um
>> being of service in a different way
being being needed.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> And um this young guy came into my
office um and uh because he was
networking with the XVC, right?
Networking his way to a job. And he was
a lawyer and I asked him a question. I
said, "Well, you seem miserable. Why did
you become a lawyer in the first place?"
And he started to cry.
and he started to tell me about his
father and pleasing his father and I
realized that that was a something that
I'd kind of grown up doing. It was at
that moment that I realized that there
was something about the alchemy of who I
was and how I was that was repeating
itself in a pattern. This is this is
coaching before.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And I called a woman who had been
my coach when I was at JP Morgan, Chris
McConnell, and I said, "Chris, I think I
want to be a coach." And she said,
"Well, it's about damn time. I've been
waiting for this phone call." So, I had
been in psychoanalysis since I was 30
years old. I continue to be in
psychoanalysis. And I remember
originally going, I'll coach on
Wednesdays. I'll coach on Wednesdays.
That's the day I'm going to coach on
Wednesdays.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That didn't work for long.
>> What I want to say to the people who are
potentially wanting this is like if you
think you have a choice, don't [__]
do it. There's a there's a
>> It's hard to start the practice.
>> Yeah. I I have a I have a funny story to
tell. Bringing it back to you, Jerry.
2016, I come to Boulder. I'm part of the
VC boot camp
>> that that Reboot was holding.
>> And I come home from it. I'm at like the
the the height of my VC career and I say
to my wife, I think I want to be a
coach.
>> And she said, "Oh, you can do that later
in life when you retire. You need to get
more experience under your belt."
>> And then sure enough, like two years
later, I quit my job as a VC and then
eventually followed this path.
>> But it it there was this deep inkling
that wouldn't leave me alone,
>> right? You know, in those two years
before I quit, I was talking to friends
that have been through different
programs and reading and learn and
>> and so it was that thing that I just
couldn't refuse.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Exactly.
>> It's not
vocation. Whatever vocation
you choose is not or whatever vocation
calls you
is not
the alternate to the original plan.
Meaning I tried to do this startup
and it failed. So now I'm going to help
other CEOs.
Now that impulse I honor.
>> Mhm. Yeah.
>> Okay.
go be a peer mentor. Go work at tech
stars or Y cominator. Go go go go go go
help in that way. But if if you're not
answering the vocational aspect of it,
that calling from the divine,
what's happening is you're you're you're
trying to help to use the the tired
metaphor from an empty vessel.
And you can feel it because you
encounter somebody, you know, you were
talking before about the people who are
sort of leaning in to try to help
>> the people leaning in to try to do those
things.
>> And I I get it. It's it comes from a the
conscious place it comes from is
well-intentioned.
>> Mhm.
>> But it's the unconscious place,
you know, it might be the codependent
structure
that's that's the problem. That's that's
a problem.
>> Yeah. Um, so if you're considering it,
um,
don't do this lightly.
>> You'll do damage.
>> And I I'll just see if I we'll see if I
can make a point like crystal clear.
I'll ask everybody in the room, the
three of us. If somebody said, you know
what, I'll give you $100 million right
now
>> to buy your practice, your coaching
practice. The only thing is you can
never coach again for the rest of your
life.
>> Would you no [__] chance?
>> No chance. Yeah.
>> So unless that's true for you,
>> no chance.
>> Yeah.
>> So for those that are listening that are
that are relatively early in their
journeys, I hear this a lot where it's
like wanting the depth, like wanting to
like force depth or to to to really
drive to outcomes.
What do you what do you say to them?
>> Well, um let's pull apart what you said.
There's the drive to outcome, which I'm
always suspicious of. Yeah,
>> because coaching as a term is so vague
and unspecific,
um it can be lumped together with
performance coaching and sales coaching
and presentation coaching and the
there's a place and a time for that.
>> And it's usually short-lived and it's
not transformational.
outcomedriven
coaching
can be it can have a shadow side which
is the fix it mentality
>> which goes back even further to the I'm
going to be the smart person in the room
>> the savior
>> which goes back to I actually feel like
[__] about myself so let me utilize this
situation to feel better about myself
>> the thing that comes to mind thinking
about it though is I know probably both
of us know some uh famous coaches and
people have worked with a lot of folks
and whatnot. And one of the things that
I notice is that whatever foil they have
can be seen in like their everything can
be seen like if there's this very deep
moralistic side to them where there's
this very strong right and wrong, you'll
see that that trap is in most of the
people who work with them.
>> But I've I've never thought of a goal
that's better than the life that it
actually shows up.
>> Mhm. Never I've never had that
experience.
>> Yeah, that that's true for me as well.
You know, Jerry says, "Do the work." And
I I can't help but go back to a saying
that that you that I've heard you talk
about, which is fool's crow,
>> right? The job fool's crow. Yeah. Where
the you the job of a medicine man is to
be a hollow bone.
>> Yes.
>> And you know, I'm really curious about
like what is that hollowing out process?
>> Yeah. So I I've been having a really
like my personal edge right now is
exactly in this location. So
>> So there's a long time where I thought
humility was thinking less of myself,
not making myself big.
>> Mhm.
>> And then humility turned into
making space to have things move through
me like in Fool's Crow. So the idea of
my job is just to be a clean vessel for
something greater than me to move
through.
And and then I was reading recently um I
think it's in the Jewish tradition where
they talk about humility as being given
taking your God-given place in the
world.
>> That's like the the translation for
humility.
And there's a personal thing to that.
And so maybe a couple years back, it's
not me, it's the teachers before me.
It's not me, it's that which moves
through me. There was a very
non-personal form of humility and now
there's this recognition of,
oh no, it's me.
>> I've done this work and this [__]
wouldn't be happening without me. And
really, this is not me at all.
>> But it's it's holding both of those two
things. And so the reason I I say that
is because
part of the hollowing out process was
first
realizing, oh, I'm putting myself above
people in my work. Okay, that's got to
go.
>> And then there was this
this this form of, oh, this isn't me,
which and I was really scared to go back
to making it personal because then I was
going to put myself above. I had the
whole thing. And then there was, oh
wait, no, there's actually something
very personal about this. There's
something very human about this. And and
by denying that, I'm actually denying my
power and I become more dangerous
>> to actually own the personal nature of
it. And to say, "Oh, wow. I actually I
do have a tremendous amount of power. I
actually have a tremendous amount of
influence."
>> So what I notice is that the hollowing
out process is also
always going on. It's the evolution
doesn't end. It seems to be it's just
this perpetual
process of letting go of one epiphany
and finding, oh, that epiphany has its
own rut and then just continuing to
learn.
>> Mhm. Yeah. That's beautiful. When I was
listening to you, I was getting the the
metaphor of like we talk about like
peeling back the onion. Yeah. And what
I'm hearing you say is sort of like this
acknowledgment of Yeah. Like there is
this hollow vessel that life is flowing
through
>> and yet there is this like creative
force this power that is coming from
within me.
>> Yes. Yeah. And it's how do I hold both?
>> You know when you were referencing
Judaism
I started thinking about the parable of
the talents from the Bible. And if you
remember from that, you know, the father
gives his children talents which are
which is money
and one of the sons buries their talent
in the backyard in the garden um to
protect it whereas the other goes out
and squanders it making investments and
comes back with tenfold talent. And the
parable of the talent is you're not
supposed to bury your talent. You're
supposed to step into that. In my life,
my father said to me, I was 21 and I had
gotten a job offer to be the speech
writer for the CEO at NCR. I was a
journalist at the time. And it was a
kind of big deal. My father's reaction
was very telling. He said to me, "Be
careful. The higher up the pole the
monkey climbs, the more his ass shows."
M
>> and I remember saying to myself,
>> that is the stupidest [__] advice I'd
ever gotten.
>> And um but it but it took me years later
to understand that what he was trying to
do was protect me
>> from having my ass exposed.
>> Mhm.
>> And it also tells you that he would bury
his talent in the garden.
>> Yeah.
And um I have for the most part
chosen to try to spend my talents and
invest my talents and whatever good
either I have done in the world or has
happened to me
>> stems from that choice.
>> So as as as the space gets more and more
busy
>> Yeah.
>> with these new practitioners coming in
like what what's your hope for them? I
think that the impulse comes from a good
place and I hope that they cultivate
that.
>> You know, in my Buddhist lineage, we
talk about bodhicattvas and the
bodhicattva vow
>> which is basically to work to the
alleviation of suffering for all beings
>> until all beings are free of suffering
>> and then I can get on with nirvana. Um
I hope that they approach it as um
we're all in this together
>> and yeah do your work
um because
and I know you guys have experienced as
well when you're with someone
shouldertosh shoulder and then there's
that sator that a moment of
just awakening.
Oh my god. So good.
>> That's the Lord's work.
You know, that's what I wish for them.
>> My the quote that came to mind was this.
I think it's from an Amazon tribe and I
think I read inland twist book, but it's
uh if you're here to help me, no thank
you.
>> If you're here to work together for our
mutual freedom, let's get to work.
That would be my hope.
>> So that's that's the source of that
mutual freedom. Yeah, that's that's
really beautiful.
>> You know, where do you see the potential
for this to go? You know, this this this
next wave
>> of coaching.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Where
>> Well, I think before we were recording,
Joe was talking about the cyclical
nature of these times that we're in. And
if we're fortunate,
then um we could raise a whole
generation of folks who are
um dedicated to that smuggling
consciousness
to to um putting their shoulder to the
wheel of making things a little bit
better,
>> a little bit more humane.
Um that's the opportunity.
>> So that's where my hope goes.
>> Yeah. I would say that my you know where
my hope goes is that
the institutions of the last generation
of folks was very much about
fairness, maybe some equality, but there
was very much like a how do we give
everybody an equal opportunity? not an
equal reality but maybe an equal
opportunity. And my hope would be that
the next generation of institutions is
how do we how does every institution we
have create healing moments and growth.
>> Every once in a while you get to a
wedding that feels healing.
>> Oh wow, that's healing.
>> Get really lucky sometimes. You go to a
funeral and it's a healing funeral. It's
not just uh people getting drunk and
avoiding their emotions and and that I
think there's an opportunity for that to
be the case in business and it makes
business more productive and in
boardrooms and it makes boardrooms more
effective and in every one of our
institutions. So my hope would be that
if there's enough people who are holding
that reality field of everything that we
do can be a a
path of development and if we do people
want to be involved in those things
including products or then then I think
that we have a really great society
you know u so that would be my
[Music]